#summary Getting started using the AIC-Util project.
#labels Featured

= Setting up your workspace =
You can check out from the project's Subversion repository directly. For this you will require a Subversion client, see the following for useful instructions:
  * [http://code.google.com/p/aic-util/source/checkout]
  * [http://subversion.apache.org/packages.html]
  
and check out the trunk to a directory named __aic-util__ in your workspace.

==Using the Command Line and <a href="http://maven.apache.org/">Maven</a> ==

__AIC-Util__ consists of a single Maven pom.xml file and can be built from the command line using Maven as follows:
<code>
mvn clean test
</code>
== Using the <a href="http://www.eclipse.org/">Eclipse IDE</a>==
*Note:* The <a href="http://subclipse.tigris.org/">Subclipse</a> Subversion client is a useful plugin for the Eclipse IDE. Refer to http://subclipse.tigris.org/ for details on how to setup your Eclipse IDE to use the plugin. The following instructions detail how to download the AIC-Util project using this plugin.

  # Select the menu item 'File->New->Other':<br> http://aic-util.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/eclipse_file_new_other.png
  # In the New 'Select a wizard' dialog, select 'SVN->Checkout Projects from SVN':<br> http://aic-util.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/eclipse_new_other_svn.png
  # Hit the 'Next >' button.
  # If this is your first time accessing the __AIC-Util__ Subversion repository you will want to select 'Create a new repository location' and hit the 'Next >' button otherwise just enter in the pre-existing location from the list provided (see [http://code.google.com/p/aic-util/source/checkout Google Source Checkout] for details).
  # In the 'Select Folder' dialog, select the trunk folder and hit the 'Next' button.
  # In the 'Check Out As' dialog, select the 'Check out project in the workspace' radio button and enter 'aic-util' as the project name.<br> http://aic-util.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/eclipse_check_out_as.png